Add TypeScript support in New Architecture/Codegen (#3036)
facebook/react-native-website: docs/new-architecture-library-intro.md

### Writing the JavaScript Spec

The JavaScript spec defines all APIs that are provided by the native module, along with the types of those constants and functions.
Using a **typed** spec file allows us to be intentional and declare all the input arguments and outputs of your native module’s methods.

:::info

> JavaScript spec files can be written in either [Flow](https://flow.org/) or [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/). The Codegen process will automatically choose the correct type parser based on your spec file's extension (`.js` for Flow, `.ts` or `.tsx` for TypeScript).

Reviewer: I would add a note mentioning that the TypeScript support is still in "beta" as we're not using it in production at Meta. If there are any bug or missing feature, please report them here: https://github.com/reactwg/react-native-new-architecture/discussions/categories/q-a

:::

#### TurboModules

> JavaScript spec files **must** be named `Native<MODULE_NAME>.js` (for TypeScript use extension `.ts` or `.tsx`) and they export a `TurboModuleRegistry` `Spec` object. The name convention is important because the Codegen process looks for modules whose JavaScript spec file starts with the keyword `Native`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
JavaScript spec files **must** be named `Native<MODULE_NAME>.js` (for TypeScript use extension `.ts` or `.tsx`) and they export a `TurboModuleRegistry` `Spec` object. The name convention is important because the Codegen process looks for modules whose spec file (either JavaScript or TypeScript) starts with the keyword `Native`.
```

Reviewer: or just remove entirely `(either JavaScript or TypeScript)`

> The following is a basic JavaScript spec template, written in [Flow](https://flow.org/) as well as [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following snippets show a basic spec template, written in [Flow](https://flow.org/) as well as [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/).
```

export default (TurboModuleRegistry.get<Spec>('<MODULE_NAME>'): ?Spec);
```

> ##### Turbo Module: TypeScript Example

Reviewer: I think we might want to use a tabbed snippet, like we do for Kotlin/Java. See here:
- https://github.com/facebook/react-native-website/pull/2977

```ts

> import type { TurboModule } from 'react-native/Libraries/TurboModule/RCTExport';
> import * as TurboModuleRegistry from 'react-native/Libraries/TurboModule/TurboModuleRegistry';

Reviewer 2: My TypeScript knowledge is very limited at the moment, but shouldn't we be able to import the types without the full path? Something like:

```suggestion
import type { TurboModule } from 'react-native';
import * as TurboModuleRegistry from 'react-native';
```

Reviewer: +1

Author: Good point! Looks like both of these are exported from the main d.ts file.

export interface Spec extends TurboModule {
  readonly getConstants: () => {};

  // your module methods go here, for example:
  getString(id: string): Promise<string>;
}

export default TurboModuleRegistry.get<Spec>('<MODULE_NAME>');
```

#### Fabric Components

> JavaScript spec files **must** be named `<FABRIC COMPONENT>NativeComponent.js` (for TypeScript use extension `.ts` or `.tsx`) and they export a `HostComponent` object. The name convention is important: the Codegen process looks for components whose `js` spec file ends with the keyword `NativeComponent`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
JavaScript spec files **must** be named `<FABRIC COMPONENT>NativeComponent.js` (for TypeScript use extension `.ts` or `.tsx`) and they export a `HostComponent` object. The name convention is important: the Codegen process looks for components whose spec file (either JavaScript or TypeScript) ends with the suffix `NativeComponent`.
```

> The following is a basic JavaScript spec template, written in [Flow](https://flow.org/) as well as [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following snippet shows a basic JavaScript spec template, written in [Flow](https://flow.org/) as well as [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/).
```

): HostComponent<NativeProps>);
```

##### Fabric Component: TypeScript Example

```ts
import type { ViewProps } from 'ViewPropTypes';
import type { HostComponent } from 'react-native';

> const codegenNativeComponent = require('codegenNativeComponent');

Reviewer 2: I was trying something like this spec in another project. I have a `MapView` component which is an external pod which is included by the app. Everything builds, but when I run the app I encounter this error:

```
error: Error: Unable to resolve module codegenNativeComponent from /Users/cipolleschi/Community/RNNewArchitectureApp/AwesomeApp/node_modules/map-view/js/MapViewNativeComponents.ts: codegenNativeComponent could not be found within the project or in these directories:
  node_modules

If you are sure the module exists, try these steps:
 1. Clear watchman watches: watchman watch-del-all
 2. Delete node_modules and run yarn install
 3. Reset Metro's cache: yarn start --reset-cache
 4. Remove the cache: rm -rf /tmp/metro-*
  1 | import type { ViewProps } from 'ViewPropTypes';
  2 | import type { HostComponent } from 'react-native';
> 3 | const codegenNativeComponent = require('codegenNativeComponent');
```

My full spec is [here](https://github.com/react-native-community/RNNewArchitectureApp/commit/37e1711528dee7cc2c30768b217eb670400f34a3). 

I have also added the `react-native-codegen` package and the babel plugins like this:
```js
plugins: [
    '@babel/plugin-proposal-class-properties',
    './node_modules/react-native/packages/babel-plugin-codegen'
]
```

Any idea about this problem @charlesbdudley?

<img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/11162307/160657484-d69d2997-9fd1-46cd-a88f-64396ddb04c0.png" width="240" />

Reviewer: Discussed offline. The snippet should be updated to use:
```
import codegenNativeComponent from 'react-native/Libraries/Utilities/codegenNativeComponent';
```

export interface NativeProps extends ViewProps {
  // add other props here
}

export default codegenNativeComponent<NativeProps>(
  '<FABRIC COMPONENT>'
) as HostComponent<NativeProps>;
```

> ### Supported Flow Types

Reviewer: This section also needs some adjustments

import type { ViewProps } from 'ViewPropTypes';
import type { HostComponent } from 'react-native';
import codegenNativeComponent from 'react-native/Libraries/Utilities/codegenNativeComponent';

export interface NativeProps extends ViewProps {
  // add other props here
}

export default codegenNativeComponent<NativeProps>(
  '<FABRIC COMPONENT>'
) as HostComponent<NativeProps>;
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Supported Types

When using Flow or TypeScript, you will be using [type annotations](https://flow.org/en/docs/types/) to define your spec. Keeping in mind that the goal of defining a JavaScript spec is to ensure the generated native interface code is type safe, the set of supported types will be those that can be mapped one-to-one to a corresponding type on the native platform.

<!-- alex ignore savage -->

In general, this means you can use primitive types (strings, numbers, booleans), as well as function types, object types, and array types. Union types, on the other hand, are not supported. All types must be read-only. For Flow: either `+` or `$ReadOnly<>` or `{||}` objects. For TypeScript: `readonly` for properties, `Readonly<>` for objects, and `ReadonlyArray<>` for arrays.

> > See Appendix [I. Spec Type to Native Type Mapping](#i-spec-type-to-native-type-mapping).

Author: @cortinico Noticed this doesn't exist. Should we put a `TODO:` or something here?

Reviewer: Sorry I missed this ping.

> Should we put a TODO: or something here?

I would not put a TODO in the doc. Just mention that the TypeScript section will be added afterwards. I also believe the table is sort of trivial so it's something we can probably do also on our end (@cipolleschi how do you feel about that) if you don't have much capacity. That would make all the TS doc ready end to end 👍

Author: @cortinico this should be good to go now
